Sheila Rodriguez Machado
Reproducible Research in R
Fall 2020
Final Project Proposal
The Truth is Revealed: Identity of the Fish Fry "Teti" Fishery in Eastern Cuba
The lack of diagnostic characters to distinguish among species and even genera of gobies (Gobiidae) is still a challenge for science in the 21st century. However, the use of molecular tools applied to species-level identification has brought some light into the taxonomy and systematics of this fish taxa. Gobies have been poorly studied in Cuba and available information on their identification and distribution is not conclusive. The fish fry fishery in Eastern Cuba known as “Teti” represents a local fishery and there is no information about the exploitation of this natural resource outside this region. Fishing “teti” has been a common practice for several years but an exponential increase of tourism in Eastern Cuba represents an additional threat to our biodiversity. Besides, if “teti” refers to a single species or a species complex is still a knowledge gap in Cuba. The present study aims to identify the Fish Fry "Teti" Fishery in Eastern Cuba using molecular markers. I plan to conduct a barcoding analysis comparing Cuban samples of gobies with samples of the genera Sicydium and Awaous available in GenBank. I will construct a Maximum Likelihood phylogenetic tree to identify the samples from Cuba. Once the Cuban samples have been sequenced and edited, I will conduct all further analyses using R, from downloading reference sequences from GenBank to identifying the Cuban sequences and writing the paper. This will ensure a reproducible pipeline from the beginning that will be available to other researchers aiming to conduct similar analyses and to promote fish conservation in their countries. 

