
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. PLEASE EDIT THE .Rmd FILE -->

# rrcompendium

This repository contains the data and code for our paper:

> Rodriguez-Machado, S., Rodríguez-Cabrera, T.M., and Prosanta
> Chakrabarty (2021). *Identity of fish fry from the “Teti” fishery in
> Eastern Cuba*.

Our pre-print will be online here:

> Rodriguez-Machado, S., Rodríguez-Cabrera, T.M., and Prosanta
> Chakrabarty (2021). *Identity of fish fry from the “Teti” fishery in
> Eastern Cuba*. Caribbean Journal of Science, Accessed 07 Sep 2021.

### How to cite

Please cite this compendium as:

> Rodriguez-Machado, S. (2021). *Compendium of R code and data for
> `Identity of fish fry from the "Teti" fishery in Eastern Cuba`*.
> Accessed 07 Sep 2021.

## Contents

The **analysis** directory contains:

  - [:file\_folder: paper](/analysis/paper): R Markdown source document
    for manuscript. Includes code to reproduce the figures and tables
    generated by the analysis. It also has a rendered version,
    `paper.docx`, suitable for reading (the code is replaced by figures
    and tables in this file)
  - [:file\_folder: data](/analysis/data): Data used in the analysis.
  - [:file\_folder: figures](/analysis/figures): Plots and other
    illustrations
  - [:file\_folder: templates](/analysis/templates): Style of citations
    and reference list

## Before starting:

This compendium was created BEFORE the sequences from Cuba were
submitted to GenBank. For this reason, make sure those sequences are
removed after downloading them from GenBank (package entrez). Otherwise,
the ML tree will include 18 samples from Cuba (9 from data/raw\_data/
plus 9 from GenBank) instead of the original 9 samples.

## How to download and run locally

This research compendium has been developed using the statistical
programming language R. To work with the compendium, you will need
installed on your computer the [R
software](https://cloud.r-project.org/) itself and optionally [RStudio
Desktop](https://rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/).

You can download the compendium as a zip from from this URL:
[master.zip](https://github.com/sheilarm23/rrcompendium/archive/master.zip).
After unzipping: - open the `.Rproj` file in RStudio - run
`devtools::install()` to ensure you have the packages this analysis
depends on (also listed in the [DESCRIPTION](/DESCRIPTION) file). -
finally, open `analysis/paper/paper.Rmd` and knit to produce the
`paper.pdf`, or run `rmarkdown::render("analysis/paper/paper.Rmd")` in
the R console

MAKEFILE: Whatever option you choose to explore, and run, this
compendium, you can also use the makefile (`/analysis/makefile`) in the
terminal (`make all`) to compile the .docx document and then, you can
use `make clean` to remove all files generated during the process.

### Licenses

**Text and figures :**
[CC-BY-4.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)

**Code :** See the [DESCRIPTION](DESCRIPTION) file

**Data :** [CC-0](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)
attribution requested in reuse

### Contributions

We welcome contributions from everyone. Before you get started, please
see our [contributor guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md). Please note that this
project is released with a [Contributor Code of Conduct](CONDUCT.md). By
participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms.
